readme.md, before:

# GenAI Stack
This GenAI application stack will get you started building your
own GenAI application in no time.
The demo applications can serve as inspiration or as a starting point.
Learn more about the details in the [technical blog post](https://neo4j.com/developer-blog/genai-app-how-to-build/).

# Configure

Create a `.env` file from the environment template file `env.example`

Available variables:
| Variable Name          | Default value                      | Description                                                 |
|------------------------|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| OLLAMA_BASE_URL        | http://host.docker.internal:11434  | REQUIRED - URL to Ollama LLM API                            |   
| NEO4J_URI              | neo4j://database:7687              | REQUIRED - URL to Neo4j database                            |
| NEO4J_USERNAME         | neo4j                              | REQUIRED - Username for Neo4j database                      |
| NEO4J_PASSWORD         | password                           | REQUIRED - Password for Neo4j database                      |
| LLM                    | llama2                             | REQUIRED - Can be any Ollama model tag, or gpt-4 or gpt-3.5 | 
| OPENAI_API_KEY         |                                    | REQUIRED - Only if LLM=gpt-4 or LLM=gpt-3.5                 |
| EMBEDDING_MODEL        | sentence_transformer               | REQUIRED - Can be sentence_transformer, openai or ollama    |
| LANGCHAIN_ENDPOINT     | "https://api.smith.langchain.com"  | OPTIONAL - URL to Langchain Smith API                       |
| LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2   | false                              | OPTIONAL - Enable Langchain tracing v2                      |
| LANGCHAIN_PROJECT      |                                    | OPTIONAL - Langchain project name                           |
| LANGCHAIN_API_KEY      |                                    | OPTIONAL - Langchain API key                                |

## LLM Configuration
MacOS and Linux users can use any LLM that's available via Ollama. Check the "tags" section under the model page you want to use on https://ollama.ai/library and write the tag for the value of the environment variable `LLM=` in th e`.env` file.
All platforms can use GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 (bring your own API keys for OpenAIs models).

**MacOS**
Install [Ollama](https://ollama.ai) on MacOS and start it before running `docker compose up`.

**Linux**
No need to install Ollama manually, it will run in a container as
part of the stack when running with the Linux profile: run `docker compose --profile linux up`.
Make sure to set the `OLLAMA_BASE_URL=http://llm:11434` in the `.env` file when using Ollama docker container.

**Windows**
Not supported by Ollama, so Windows users need to generate a OpenAI API key and configure the stack to use `gpt-3.5` or `gpt-4` in the `.env` file.
# Develop

> [!WARNING]
> There is a performance issue that impacts python applications in the latest release of Docker Desktop. Until a fix is available, please use [version `4.23.0`](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/release-notes/#4230) or earlier.

**To start everything**
```
docker compose up
```
If changes to build scripts has been made, **rebuild**.
```
docker compose up --build
```

To enter **watch mode** (auto rebuild on file changes).
First start everything, then in new terminal:
```
docker compose alpha watch
```

**Shutdown**
If health check fails or containers don't start up as expected, shutdown
completely to start up again.
```
docker compose down
```

# Applications

Here's what's in this repo:

| Name | Main files | Compose name | URLs | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Support Bot | `bot.py` | `bot` | http://localhost:8501 | Main usecase. Fullstack Python application. |
| Stack Overflow Loader | `loader.py` | `loader` | http://localhost:8502 | Load SO data into the database (create vector embeddings etc). Fullstack Python application. |
| PDF Reader | `pdf_bot.py` | `pdf_bot` | http://localhost:8503 | Read local PDF and ask it questions. Fullstack Python application. |
| Standalone Bot API | `api.py` | `api` | http://localhost:8504 | Standalone HTTP API streaming (SSE) + non-streaming endpoints. Python. |
| Standalone Bot UI | `front-end/` | `front-end` | http://localhost:8505 | Standalone client that uses the Standalone Bot API to interact with the model. JavaScript (Svelte) front-end. |

The database can be explored at http://localhost:7474.

## App 1 - Support Agent Bot

UI: http://localhost:8501
DB client: http://localhost:7474

- answer support question based on recent entries
- provide summarized answers with sources
- demonstrate difference between
    - RAG Disabled (pure LLM response)
    - RAG Enabled (vector + knowledge graph context)
- allow to generate a high quality support ticket for the current conversation based on the style of highly rated questions in the database.

![](.github/media/app1-rag-selector.png)
*(Chat input + RAG mode selector)*

|  |  |
|---|---|
| ![](.github/media/app1-generate.png) | ![](.github/media/app1-ticket.png) |
| *(CTA to auto generate support ticket draft)* | *(UI of the auto generated support ticket draft)* |

---

##  App 2 - Loader

UI: http://localhost:8502
DB client: http://localhost:7474

- import recent Stack Overflow data for certain tags into a KG
- embed questions and answers and store in vector index
- UI: choose tags, run import, see progress, some stats of data in the database
- Load high ranked questions (regardless of tags) to support the ticket generation feature of App 1.




|  |  |
|---|---|
| ![](.github/media/app2-ui-1.png) | ![](.github/media/app2-model.png) |

## App 3 Question / Answer with a local PDF
UI: http://localhost:8503  
DB client: http://localhost:7474

This application lets you load a local PDF into text
chunks and embed it into Neo4j so you can ask questions about
its contents and have the LLM answer them using vector similarity
search.

![](.github/media/app3-ui.png)

## App 4 Standalone HTTP API
Endpoints: 
  - http://localhost:8504/query?text=hello&rag=false (non streaming)
  - http://localhost:8504/query-stream?text=hello&rag=false (SSE streaming)

Example cURL command:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8504/query-stream\?text\=minimal%20hello%20world%20in%20python\&rag\=false
```

Exposes the functionality to answer questions in the same way as App 1 above. Uses
same code and prompts.

## App 5 Static front-end
UI: http://localhost:8505

This application has the same features as App 1, but is built separate from
the back-end code using modern best practices (Vite, Svelte, Tailwind).  
The auto-reload on changes are instant using the Docker watch `sync` config.  
![](.github/media/app5-ui.png)

Commit message:

Changed readme.md to MODEL_REPO and model_repo rather than ollama to allow setting either Ollama model repo or Hugging Face model repo. NOTE: Needs to fix feedback when running docker compose or docker-compose as it takes a long time to fetch large language models.

readme.md, after:

# GenAI Stack
This GenAI application stack will get you started building your
own GenAI application in no time.
The demo applications can serve as inspiration or as a starting point.
Learn more about the details in the [technical blog post](https://neo4j.com/developer-blog/genai-app-how-to-build/).

# Configure

Create a `.env` file from the environment template file `env.example`

Available variables:
| Variable Name          | Default value                      | Description                                                                 |
|------------------------|------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| MODEL_REPO_BASE_URL    | http://host.docker.internal:11434  | REQUIRED - URL to Ollama, Hugging Face or other  LLM API                    |   
| NEO4J_URI              | neo4j://database:7687              | REQUIRED - URL to Neo4j database                                            |
| NEO4J_USERNAME         | neo4j                              | REQUIRED - Username for Neo4j database                                      |
| NEO4J_PASSWORD         | password                           | REQUIRED - Password for Neo4j database                                      |
| LLM                    | llama2                             | REQUIRED - Can be any Ollama or Hugging Face model tag, or gpt-4 or gpt-3.5 | 
| OPENAI_API_KEY         |                                    | REQUIRED - Only if LLM=gpt-4 or LLM=gpt-3.5                                 |
| EMBEDDING_MODEL        | sentence_transformer               | REQUIRED - Can be sentence_transformer, openai or ollama                    |
| LANGCHAIN_ENDPOINT     | "https://api.smith.langchain.com"  | OPTIONAL - URL to Langchain Smith API                                       |
| LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2   | false                              | OPTIONAL - Enable Langchain tracing v2                                      |
| LANGCHAIN_PROJECT      |                                    | OPTIONAL - Langchain project name                                           |
| LANGCHAIN_API_KEY      |                                    | OPTIONAL - Langchain API key                                                |

## LLM Configuration
MacOS and Linux users can use any LLM that's available via Ollama or Hugging Face. Check the "tags" section under the model page you want to use on https://ollama.ai/library or https://huggingface.co/models and write the tag for the value of the environment variable `LLM=` in th e`.env` file.
All platforms can use GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 (bring your own API keys for OpenAIs models).

**MacOS**
Install [Ollama](https://ollama.ai) on MacOS and start it before running `docker compose up`.

**Linux**
No need to install model from Ollama or Hugging Face manually, it will run in a container as
part of the stack when running with the Linux profile: run `docker compose --profile linux up`.
Make sure to set the `MODEL_REPO_BASE_URL=http://llm:11434` in the `.env` file when using Model docker container.

NOTE: docker compose is the latest Docker version's syntax, some Linux distributions like Debian GNU/Linux Unstable still provides two separate commands, docker and docker-compose (with hyphen). start.sh contains an if statement to detect either docker compose or docker-compose.

**Windows**
Not supported by Ollama, so Windows users need to generate a OpenAI API key and configure the stack to use `gpt-3.5` or `gpt-4` in the `.env` file.
# Develop

> [!WARNING]
> There is a performance issue that impacts python applications in the latest release of Docker Desktop. Until a fix is available, please use [version `4.23.0`](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/release-notes/#4230) or earlier.

**To start everything**
```
docker compose up
```
If changes to build scripts has been made, **rebuild**.
```
docker compose up --build
```

To enter **watch mode** (auto rebuild on file changes).
First start everything, then in new terminal:
```
docker compose alpha watch
```

**Shutdown**
If health check fails or containers don't start up as expected, shutdown
completely to start up again.
```
docker compose down
```

# Applications

Here's what's in this repo:

| Name | Main files | Compose name | URLs | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Support Bot | `bot.py` | `bot` | http://localhost:8501 | Main usecase. Fullstack Python application. |
| Stack Overflow Loader | `loader.py` | `loader` | http://localhost:8502 | Load SO data into the database (create vector embeddings etc). Fullstack Python application. |
| PDF Reader | `pdf_bot.py` | `pdf_bot` | http://localhost:8503 | Read local PDF and ask it questions. Fullstack Python application. |
| Standalone Bot API | `api.py` | `api` | http://localhost:8504 | Standalone HTTP API streaming (SSE) + non-streaming endpoints. Python. |
| Standalone Bot UI | `front-end/` | `front-end` | http://localhost:8505 | Standalone client that uses the Standalone Bot API to interact with the model. JavaScript (Svelte) front-end. |

The database can be explored at http://localhost:7474.

## App 1 - Support Agent Bot

UI: http://localhost:8501
DB client: http://localhost:7474

- answer support question based on recent entries
- provide summarized answers with sources
- demonstrate difference between
    - RAG Disabled (pure LLM response)
    - RAG Enabled (vector + knowledge graph context)
- allow to generate a high quality support ticket for the current conversation based on the style of highly rated questions in the database.

![](.github/media/app1-rag-selector.png)
*(Chat input + RAG mode selector)*

|  |  |
|---|---|
| ![](.github/media/app1-generate.png) | ![](.github/media/app1-ticket.png) |
| *(CTA to auto generate support ticket draft)* | *(UI of the auto generated support ticket draft)* |

---

##  App 2 - Loader

UI: http://localhost:8502
DB client: http://localhost:7474

- import recent Stack Overflow data for certain tags into a KG
- embed questions and answers and store in vector index
- UI: choose tags, run import, see progress, some stats of data in the database
- Load high ranked questions (regardless of tags) to support the ticket generation feature of App 1.




|  |  |
|---|---|
| ![](.github/media/app2-ui-1.png) | ![](.github/media/app2-model.png) |

## App 3 Question / Answer with a local PDF
UI: http://localhost:8503  
DB client: http://localhost:7474

This application lets you load a local PDF into text
chunks and embed it into Neo4j so you can ask questions about
its contents and have the LLM answer them using vector similarity
search.

![](.github/media/app3-ui.png)

## App 4 Standalone HTTP API
Endpoints: 
  - http://localhost:8504/query?text=hello&rag=false (non streaming)
  - http://localhost:8504/query-stream?text=hello&rag=false (SSE streaming)

Example cURL command:
```bash
curl http://localhost:8504/query-stream\?text\=minimal%20hello%20world%20in%20python\&rag\=false
```

Exposes the functionality to answer questions in the same way as App 1 above. Uses
same code and prompts.

## App 5 Static front-end
UI: http://localhost:8505

This application has the same features as App 1, but is built separate from
the back-end code using modern best practices (Vite, Svelte, Tailwind).  
The auto-reload on changes are instant using the Docker watch `sync` config.  
![](.github/media/app5-ui.png)
